I think we were talking about senior boots and how
much they cost. I think seventy-five dollars. And
of course then you had to buy the breeches to go with
them. Oh, that wasn't standard issue? No, you had
to pay for that. That wasn't government issue. So
you not only had to buy the boots, but you had to buy
the breeches. And the summer breeches and the
winter ones. So there was that expense. So it was
not an inconsequential thing. How did you and your
senior buddies, what special care did y'all give
to those people? We took care of them. They always
had a special place in the room. The big decision
was, when your senior year was over, what were you
going to do with it? Everybody wanted to keep it,
but we all needed the money. And I sold mine, and I
don't remember who. Do you remember how much you
got for them?
No. During your senior year, about how often did
you wear those boots?
Gosh, well, every parade function. Every
football game? Every football, oh yeah, every
football game. And if you were out of town or on a
date or something like that, you'd want to be sure
to wear them. every opportunity you could without
being just gauche about it. And you hadn't yet met
this special girl from Waco? No. Well, yeah, I had.
Virginia and I met that one quarter I went to Beto
when my folks were living up in the ranch, but it
never materialized until later.
Let's see, do you remember going to Muster on
campus?
I don't have a specific recollection of it. And
that may be because of a muster I made. I don't know
whether I'd come home. I don't have a specific
recollection of the muster. I do have my 53 Union
muster. Oh, that was fantastic. Right, you're
senior ring. Oh, big deal. How much did it cost? I
want to say it. It was less than a hundred. How did
you feel when you put that on? Oh man, big deal. Why
are Aggie rings special? I think one of the reasons
is that you can get it only if you go to school and
satisfy certain requirements. You can't go to the
jewelry store and buy it. You can't go to the
bookstore and buy it. It just has that tradition.
Have you ever lost yours? No, never have. Any good
ring stories about where somebody saw it? No, but
it saved my finger one time. I was in the tank, and
the hatch fell, and it hit the ring, and if it hadn't
been for the ring, I lost my finger. I remember
that, because I bent it a little bit, and I had to get
it straightened out. Then your senior year final
review. Very emotional. Describe how, why. Well,
of course, you know it's the end of it. And of
course, at that time, the war had already started
in Korea. And I knew, you know, step off campus.
This is May of 1950. No, I didn't graduate until
August. August of 50? Yeah, August of 50. Oh, so the
war just started then? The war just started in
June. So it had, I had taken a regular, it was
offered and took a regular commission.
But, you know, there was, that sort of put a,
several of us had gone off to, you know, interview
for jobs and things like that. I know I went to
Dallas and interviewed with P&G. And then the war
started. your future all of a sudden was totally
changed. There wasn't any choice about where you
were going to go or what you were going to do. So it
had that kind of feeling about doing it because you
knew you were going to have to do it immediately.
But it was an emotional time. Did parents come, did
family come for final review and commencement?
See, graduating in August, there was final
review, but my parents didn't come up. I think
maybe, I started to say that, I think maybe my
parents came up one time for Mother's Day. And I'm
pretty sure my mother was there. So, did you ever go
across the stage for commencement? To get my
diploma? Not to get a diploma. I don't think they
had it. I did go to get commissioned. I got a picture
of that. Now that was done in the spring? No, that
was done probably in August. Oh really? Yeah.
Alright, as you and your buddies were, during your
senior year, as you all began to talk about the
future, how well prepared did you think A&M had
made you for the future? What did you think? I felt
good about it. because I had that offer from P&G,
which was a good offer. I didn't know what I wanted
to do really, but John Taylor and I were good
friends all through school. We both went to P&G and
both of us were made offers. What was the
foundation for your optimism about the A&M
education, the A&M preparation?
I think I would say that it was an awareness that a
graduate of A&M was well regarded. I think A&M had a
good reputation in the, quote, marketplace.
We felt more so than other schools. And I don't know
whether that was really true, but that was kind of
the feeling we had, fed to us really by former
students. He always felt you were going to get a
fair break.
As you look back now,
what preparation did A&M give to you for the real
world? What was special about A&M? What evidence
did you find? I don't know that this is a fair view of
it, but I think you've got an appreciation of how
people can work together. It was less of a
frat-type school, if that's one way to put it. We
were pretty serious. I mean, we had a lot of good
times, and that's all right, but I think the whole
campus was serious about its education. Maybe
that was flavored by the fact that there was some
other veterans. But I think we always felt we got a
good education. Obviously, some schools were
better than others. I think the business school
was marginal at best. Looking back on it, I don't
know what it was. But there was still enough
goodness, if that's the word, about the other
disciplines and the guys you were with. You knew,
for engineers, you know, I roomed with an
engineer, you knew what the difficulties were and
the disciplines that they went through. You felt
that anybody who came through and got a degree
there had earned something and that it was well
regarded on the
outside. Did A&M help you get that P&G offer? Did
A&M help people get jobs there? They did have a
placement service, certainly nothing like it is
now. And I'm trying to think who was in charge of it.
I don't want to say Wendell Horsley, but that may
have been when I was on the staff. I don't know
whether Wendell was there when I was in school or
not. Again, that was all King's accident at the war
study for those of us who were in the
Corps. What creates Aggie spirit, Aggie
loyalty? That's a good question.
I think it's a respect for the institution, a
respect for people who have immerse themselves in
the institution in whatever form they choose.
I think it is the recognition of the continuity of
fellowship for camaraderie. And there's a
singleness of association. There was. I don't
know now whether that's still the case or not. But
at that time, it was really, we kind of flew
together because there wasn't anything else to do
there. We were perforce united at a location
pursuing, in a sense, our own individual goals.
pursuing it in concert with a lot of other people.
And I don't know as the school has grown if that's
still the case or not. While the go home machine was
turned off, we were talking about the
inclusiveness of the student body. Describe the
diversity of the student body when you were there.
Obviously it wasn't diverse. as diverse then as it
is now. There were no blacks on campus. There were
not that many Mexican Americans, but I think that
was probably, we probably had as many as any large
state institution because you could go there and
not have to spend a lot of money. It was not an
expensive school to go to. the Mexican-Americans
who were there were totally absorbed into the
culture of the place. There was no, absolutely no
discrimination. What about other groups, Jews,
Catholics, Protestants? I don't recall any
instance of any type of difficulty in none
whatsoever. Basically, in terms of their
economic background, can you generalize about
Aggie? Most of us were from middle economic ranges
or lower. There were a few. One guy had an airplane.
Oh boy. He was the Colonel of the Corps in 51. A.D.
Martin had an airplane. What kind? Cessna 172. He
had a car.
He never let it go to his head. Because one time he
threw us all down the rail. We had a big party down
the rail. But when I was on WTAW, the best guy on the
station was the owner, Dick Gottlieb. He went on
and had quite a career in radio. A Jewish. One of the
guys on the battalion staff, his name was Gollum,
went on to become, I think, a big editor with a
person's religion or economic background. There
just wasn't any. I don't know what the term would
be. Were they urban or rural? I think largely
rural. Small
town. I think you're right for that. In terms of if
we had to We're not talking about politics now.
We're talking about change, receptivity, or...
If you're not talking about politics, I would say
that
there was a feeling that there was a job to be done.
You had to get through school. You were fortunate
to be where you were. You didn't, you were not
looking for windmills to tilt.
That wasn't important. The important thing was to
get all the way through school. All right, now, in
politics, let's generalize. What were they like?
Well, I suspect if they had any preference, they
were mostly Democrats then. I'm going to take a
small break.
Let's go back to your senior year. Your roommate
was the Corps Commander. What kind of routine did a
Corps Commander have in those years? What did the
Corps Commander have to worry about? About
everything. His name was Doyle Aband from Laredo.
Very modest background. He was a quantum
engineering major. He was smart,
mature beyond his years. He was not a veteran, but
he was a very mature young
man. He reported, of course, to Colonel Boatner.
Boatner used him. He just delegated things to him
and held him responsible for what went on in the
Corps.
Despite his very modest background, he had no
difficulty whatsoever in talking to big people,
former students, dignitaries would come to
campus because he got called in and all that sort of
thing. Handled himself beautifully. He was an
unusual young man. Were there major crises that he
had to deal with, which you would call them? Not
that I remember. He was so highly respected within
the Corps that if anything, and I can't think of
anything specific, but if there were anything
that threatened to cause a problem, he was
sufficient unto himself to take care of it. Were
there any pranks tried on the Corps commander or
his roommate? Since I was his roommate, not on him.
I used to get drowned on occasion just because of
the battalion stuff, but I knew that. I could tell
it was coming. In terms of making noise or anything
else, was the area where y'all were in the dorm, was
that kind of fish didn't bother that area very
much? No, no, no, they didn't. I don't ever
remember them coming. Describe... the routine
for meals for the Corps staff in Duncan Binding
Hall? I think we ate together. I think we ate
together as a group. It's hard for me to separate.
I'm thinking more of the time that I wasn't on the
Corps staff, but we ate together as a group. But it
would, I would say it would be very civil. I mean, we
Did y'all get adequate helpings? We didn't get any
special treatment. No, you didn't get any? No, no.
Really? No, no. No, we didn't get any favoritism in
that respect. And you don't remember his ever
being called out in the middle of the night to work
on something? No. He was uniquely qualified for
the job. I don't know where he got his maturity. But
he really, he had it and he was so highly respected
within the Corps by the regimental commanders and
by the military staff. And there was a, were you all
aware your junior year of a comparatively serious
routine of reviewing to make the Corps commander
selection? Yes, I don't remember what it was, but
he was I think they had been earmarked early in his
junior year. Those kind of guys kind of stood out
early on. Did y'all have a fish to come and take care
of your room when you were seniors? No. No, we
didn't do that. See, again, Boatner was so
determined to stamp out any kind of hazing. He
never was totally successful, but he did. And for
that reason, no, we didn't have any of that in the
course of that. Were you all careful to see to it
that your room never had any violations or
regulations? I don't think we made an effort. We
just never did. Yeah. So it was, you know, we had a
response. And again, I think the fact that during
those years, There were so many veterans there who
were so serious about their education. We, being
the veterans, kind of lifted the maturity of the
whole group. We said, without consciously making
that, but we set an example that other guys kind of
rose to. And so... Was smoking in the dormitories
allowed then? Yes. I don't remember much of it, but
it was allowed, sure. Okay, back, I don't have many
questions left. Can you think of any important
topics we have not yet included?
No, no... You ask a lot of questions. You didn't
make any whiz-bang trips to New York or California
or the other side of the world or anything like
that? No, we didn't do any of that, you know. During
the summers, what did you do? Well, of course, one
summer... Being in the Corps, we had to go to Fort
Hood. At Fort Hood, how did you Aggies compare with
the other ROTC students? We thought we were better
than the rest of them by far. I'll throw this in. At
A&M, at the time I was there, we had a couple of tanks
to work with. I learned to drive a tank at A&M. Of
course, further at Fort Hood. That saved my life.
in Korea, because we lost so many people when the
Chinese came in, and we were trying to withdraw,
and we didn't have, we lost a lot of people, and I
ended up driving, I was a lieutenant, but I ended up
driving a tank, because we were 24 hours on the
road, in the dark, mountain roads, and I knew how to
drive a tank. Another point, when I went to Korea, I
went over with six other guys, a total of six of us,
all from other ROTC schools, None
of them had any idea what they were up against. I sat
down the night before we went into our battalion,
and I showed them how to get into a tank and what they
would find there, and how to shoot a machine gun.
They'd never had any, they were quartermasters
and finance people. The A&M saved my life in that
sense. Do you remember when you first heard about
the war beginning in Korea? Oh, yeah, the day it
happened, you know. That was such a traumatic
thing. We knew right away that forget about P&G.
Were you here that summer? You were at A&M that
summer? I was at A&M, yeah, because I had to go
through to August to finish. And you heard about it
on the radio? Would have to have been the radio,
yeah. Since the Corps wasn't there that summer,
did Boatner or anybody else call you? No, we
weren't notified in any respect. You just knew
intuitively what was ahead. It wasn't like, do you
remember where you were when Pearl Harbor
happened? It kind of came on, it took a couple of
days to realize, hey, we're going to get into this
thing. And from there on out, everything changed.
All right, let's see. If you were a consultant
to the A&M leadership today, what advice would you
give them about
continuing A&M, how to continue A&M's progress.
What do you think A&M ought to do or not do, continue
to do or start doing in the future? Oh gosh, that's
difficult because, you know, I don't really know
what all they're doing now, but I would say that a
real concerted effort needs to be made to keep the
core at A&M. And I say that just because I think it is
so much a part of the history of the school. It gives
the school a uniqueness that few institutions
have. You've got the Citadel, and you've got West
Point, Annapolis, and so on. And they have to move
with the times. But given the patriotic speech
here, we need in the armed services today people
who come from a, quote, a civilian kind of
background. I think you need that leaven in the
military forces. And so I think A&M has a
responsibility to provide that as it has in the
past. That doesn't mean there isn't a marvelous
opportunity for people who don't want to be in the
Corps. But I think that needs to get special
attention because it is a uniqueness. What else?
From what I see, I think what is being done now seems
to be the right sort of thing. I mean, institutions
have to change. And I think A&M is changing
appropriately, and of course my source is just
basically the Alumni Magazine, which I think is a
fine publication.
It's going to be difficult to keep the standards
up, I guess, except that just the physical number
of limitations of students coming in is going to be
a filter and we'll continue to have good people.
I think there seems to be an effort to try and keep a
vision ahead, try to adapt it to a terribly
changing society. I think our isolation in Brazos
County is probably a good thing in that respect,
because you don't go there unless you want to go.
If someone walked up to you and gave you a check for a
million dollars with one restriction, you had to
pass it to Texas A&M, but you could decide what to be
done with it. Or if you could make a Really, big gift
to A&M. What would you want that gift to do? What
would be your highest priority projects?
I think that I would put it into scholarships for
students who went into the Corps. I think the other
parts are going to take care of themselves.
They're taking care of themselves. But I think
that's so important that anything that will
attract good people and with a commitment to the
Corps of Cadets is probably as much as can be done
for A&M with one single check. How would you select
the recipients of those?
I think it would have to be a combination of need,
academics, and a commitment to the core.
To what former students, faculty, advisors,
etc., do you feel greatest debt of gratitude and
why? Earl Rudder. Why?
He is the man, as much as any one person,
responsible for taking A&M out of a good but not
spectacular institution and giving it the
foundation for being a great institution. Who
else? Perhaps to you personally.
Are there others that meant something special to
you personally?
Now, of all the people that I associate with at A&M,
Earl Rudder stands head and shoulders above the
rest of them. All right, then my last question is,
what feelings do you hold in your heart today for
Texas A&M?
I think I'd have to say that I was very, very
fortunate that I ended up there. I could end up a lot
of different places. And I don't think that any
place that I know of could have given me more for
what lay ahead of me than A&M did. And I still have
many, many good friends.
So I think that's it.